## Title: Energy and demographics, how do we use it?
## Data: https://data.london.gov.uk/dataset/smartmeter-energy-use-data-in-london-households
## Description
Smart meter readings from the United Kingdom over a three year period (2011 to 2014) at half hour intervals. What this means is that from ~5500 households we have total energy draw / usage at 30 minute intervals. They were "recruited as a balanced sample representative of the Greater London population". There are two types of groups, those under dynamic time of use pricing and others under static pricing. The main objective of this data collection process to understand how users of various demographics respond to dynamic pricing compared to static pricing. "The signals given were designed to be representative of the types of signal that may be used in the future to manage both high renewable generation ... and also test the potential to use high price signals to reduce stress on local distribution grids during periods of stress"

## Motivation / Problem Statement
I have always been fascinated by energy consumption, starting back to the [energy dis-aggregation task](https://web.stanford.edu/group/peec/cgi-bin/docs/events/2011/becc/presentations/3%20Disaggregation%20The%20Holy%20Grail%20-%20Carrie%20Armel.pdf) that I helped do some research in during [my undergrad](https://aaai.org/ojs/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3872). It would be interesting to try similar work on this data. However, I will keep the project simple for now and focus on understanding the impacts of dynamic pricing on energy consumption amongst various demographic groups. Do they respond differently? In a positive way towards their objectives? (e.g. reducing load at peak times). Does everyone?

## Terms of use
Republishing is not prohibited by data.london.gov
## Ethical Objections
I will be undergoing analyses that ties into demographics of the housing populations there-in. Any results from this analyses may be misinterpreted to mean that particular income classes or other demographics are responsible for wasteful energy usage. Even if this were true, it would likely be explained by another factor, and would unfairly tarnish the groups being studied. Consequently, I aim to be very precise in the discoveries of my analyses and put disclaimers where appropriate to make sure over-reaching statements / conclusions are drawn. However, despite this, some people like to take only part of the facts, and there is little one can do to prevent this if they purposefully ignore your comments.
## Unknowns and dependencies
I am relying on my machine to be able to handle the large size of this data set (10GB when unzipped). If it can't, I will have to do some random sampling or other filtering which needs to be carefully done so as not to not fairly represent all populations. Furthermore, I need to do a few joins on the data given to address all questions I am interested in, which adds complexity to the data munging part of this project.
